# ER triage BOT
#### Video Demo:  [<URL HERE>](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0I5oR69BHyA)
#### Description:
Trying to simulate a ER triage system by going through to determine if immediate medical attention is needed or not.Code used is flask,Llama3, Copilot and HTML,CSS. I used mostly old codes and edited them to solve the problem.Obviously it is not accurate nor do I have the skill to implement ML on data nor hands on large enough data set to draw relevant conclusion so I had to settle with a dictionary search ending with a extra back end just in case it could not handle using OPEN MD as search. 

I used Kaggle to get dataset at first. Finally i settled  with LLAMA 3 dataset. I finally used a 40 item list or 46 of top common cases that requires almost ER. I read "Most Frequent Reasons for Emergency Department Visits, In
2018 by H CUP USA". It did inspire me a lot on what data to look for. The hardest part was deciding on the database type and which symptoms to include how to categorize. What systems I want to use versus user friendly input system and what to compromise etc. I learned new things such as learning to integrate API into system call as well, git commands and various modules SQL without using the CS50 sql in python. Mathematical;y, I learned various methods of grouping data, but mostly to reinforce concept in program design and also learnt the difficulty of building a machine learning an neural network so gave up that route using numpy or sci-kit. 

I did a dictionary in python but finally went with a good complexity program with various concept we seen in class such as flask, webpage design, CSS, HTML and in depth SQL design with some good grasp on db usage versus JSON which i initially wanted to use but did not. 
Also lots of change 

At the end I just want the user to see if they really need to go to the emergency room or not, save them a couple thousand of dollars. I use an combination of quiz, dictionary search from symptom to severity as well as age, final an outcome and log of the patient. Long term we can apply more Machine learning techniques to predict the outcome for future triage system and maybe replace or help confirm diagnosis. Various python modules could be added later for image recognition, other sensors and increased complexity and true machine learning rather than multiple if statements or dictionary style search. 

Complexity wise I do not think my system does well at the moment i estimate it to be log (1) highly efficient but algorithmically i think it can be improved in others ways such as logic flow rather than program-wise. For edge cases and SQL injection I though of sanitizing the input using placeholders ? as well as required inside HTML and using error case. Security wise it could be improved I really see this program being used in offline setting like hospital where security would be on the computer user side rather than an attacker from the outside. Nonetheless i should implement a login system later on to keep patient data secure but do not want it to cumbersome for users to use.

After my initial version I improved the UI a bit to allow a more rigid id system to see if ER required that the option is highlighted in red.  As well I used java script to make Day night mode possible which worked well. 

Index/ main has a line to search OpenMD generically and maybe I could implement a QR code system so someone could just scan later on. 
Secondly, triage the main, uses 2 databases: patient.db and triage.db. Patient.db contains patient information and symptom_id. Triage.db contains all the symptoms and their corresponding attributes that includes requires ER or not. I linked both table post triage to give the patient a way to view their diagnosis. They enter info in triage page about their symptom and information. The triage filters using SQL like to match the relevant data.

I will add 2 more criteria later: age system and severity system such that age can increase severity as well as gender and location as well but am unable to implement them at the current moment. For example if I cough blood and cannot swallow, i have 2 symptoms that should require ER visit when they are combined but each on their own would not merit a ER visit. Also edge cases and better way to sort data maybe visually using click and point rather than just since not everyone can know what larynx might be spelled or called. The other flaw i have seen is the lack of weight to filter many results which I might work out. Conveniently like the readability maybe there might a formula to calculate this more clearly. 

I focused on making modular as possible to be able to easily scale and change into other back ends such as node.js Nothing really new here just reapplying what we saw in cs50 in the most recent period since all the previous concept are no longer fresh in my head. This gave more will to maybe learn later on machine learning and simulation etc. Happy holidays!
